[OSDOCS-19519]: Adding HCP on Azure assembly and first 2 concepts (#111190)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/hcp-azure-overview.adoc

//Module included in the following assemblies:
// hosted_control_planes/hcp-deploy/hcp-deploy-azure.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="hcp-azure-overview_{context}"]
= Overview of {hcp} on {azure-short}

[role="_abstract"]
You can deploy and manage hosted clusters on an OpenShift management cluster that runs in {azure-first}. With a self-managed deployment model, you manage your own OpenShift cluster.

[id="hcp-azure-arch_{context}"]
== Architecture of {hcp} on {azure-short}

At a high level, the architecture of {hcp} on {azure-short} consists of three layers:

Management cluster:: An {azure-short} OpenShift cluster that hosts the HyperShift Operator and the control planes for your hosted clusters
Control plane:: Kubernetes control-plane components that run as pods on the management cluster

> Data plane:: Compute nodes that run as {azure-short} virtual machines (VMs) in your {azure-short} subscription

Reviewer: [DLs](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=format-lists#definition-lists) should have a `.` at the end (new to me recently!)

Author: Good to know!

+
* Managed identities for each {product-title} component, including the image registry, ingress, CSI drivers, cloud provider, network operator, and so on.
* OIDC issuer in {azure-short} Blob Storage for service account token validation
* Federated credentials that establish trust relationships between {azure-short} Entra ID and {product-title} service accounts

Phase 2: Set up the management cluster:: In this phase, you prepare your {product-title} management cluster on {azure-short} to host and manage hosted clusters. During this phase, you install the following components:
+
* {azure-short} DNS zones, for private and public-private topologies
* External DNS, for private and public-private topologies
* HyperShift Operator

Phase 3: Create hosted clusters:: In this phase, you create and configure hosted clusters. This phase involves the following steps:
+
* Setting up infrastructure
* Creating a hosted cluster
* Integrating workload identity

> * Configuring private endpoint access (optional)

Reviewer: Should this be an ordered list?

Author: Good catch -- will update

//Module included in the following assemblies:
// hosted_control_planes/hcp-deploy/hcp-deploy-azure.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="hcp-azure-overview_{context}"]
= Overview of {hcp} on {azure-short}

[role="_abstract"]

> You can deploy and manage hosted clusters on an OpenShift management cluster that runs in {azure-first}. With a self-managed deployment model, you manage your OpenShift cluster, as opposed to a managed deployment, where {azure-short} Kubernetes Service manages your cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can deploy and manage hosted clusters on an OpenShift management cluster that runs in {azure-first}. With a self-managed deployment model, you manage your OpenShift cluster, as opposed to a managed deployment, where Red Hat manages your management cluster.
```

[id="hcp-azure-arch_{context}"]

> == Architecture of {hcp} on {azure-short}

Reviewer 2: Using {hcp} makes hosted control planes lowercase in this heading and many others.

Author: In this case, the lowercase is okay. It's only not okay if `hosted control planes` is the first phrase in the heading or sentence.

Reviewer 2: Isn't this in the heading though?

Author: yep, but {hcp} is not the first word in the heading, so it stays lowercase. Here's an example, in case it helps:

- If the heading is "Architecture of hosted control planes on Azure", then lowercase "hosted control planes" is correct.
- If the heading is "Hosted control planes architecture", then we'd need to capitalize the "H" in hosted control planes because "Hosted" is the first word in the heading.

Control plane:: Kubernetes control-plane components that run as pods on the management cluster
Data plane:: Compute nodes that run as {azure-short} virtual machines (VMs) in your {azure-short} subscription

The architecture uses {azure-short} Workload Identity for secure, credential-free authentication between {product-title} components and {azure-short} services. As a result, you do not need to manage long-lived service principal credentials, and you get better security through federated identity credentials.

[id="hcp-azure-compare-managed_{context}"]
== Differences between self-managed and managed {hcp} on {azure-short}

For a summary of the differences between self-managed {hcp} on {azure-short} and managed {hcp} on {azure-short}, see the following table:

.Comparing self-managed {hcp} and managed {hcp} on {azure-short}
[cols="2",options="header"]
|===
|Self-managed {hcp} on {azure-short} |Managed {hcp} on {azure-short}

|The management platform is an {product-title} management cluster. 
|The management platform is {azure-short} Kubernetes Service.

|You are responsible to set up the management cluster and manage it.

> |The management cluster is set up and managed for you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|The management cluster is set up and managed for you by Red Hat.
```

|===

[id="hcp-azure-deployment-workflow_{context}"]
== Deployment workflow for {hcp} on {azure-short}

Deploying self-managed {hcp} on {azure-short} involves a three-phase process in the following order:

Phase 1: Set up {azure-short} Workload Identity:: This phase establishes secure authentication infrastructure so that {product-title} components can access {azure-short} services. During this phase, the security infrastructure that your hosted clusters require is created:
+
* Managed identities for each {product-title} component, including the image registry, ingress, CSI drivers, cloud provider, network operator, and so on.
* OIDC issuer in {azure-short} Blob Storage for service account token validation
* Federated credentials that establish trust relationships between {azure-short} Entra ID and {product-title} service accounts

Phase 2: Set up the management cluster:: In this phase, you prepare your {product-title} management cluster on {azure-short} to host and manage hosted clusters. During this phase, you install the following components:
+
* {azure-short} DNS zones (optional)

> * External DNS (optional)

Reviewer 2: It is required for private and publicprivate topologies/clusters
